**Jefferson Integrated Magnetic Resonance Imaging Center (JIMRIC)**

The Jefferson Integrated Magnetic Resonance Imaging Center (JIMRIC) provides
enterprise-wide clinical and research support for investigators involved in
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the human brain, central nervous system
(CNS), cardiac, and musculoskeletal systems. Our technical specialists provide
advanced consultation on MRI pulse sequence development, optimization, study
protocol definition, and computational post-processing of MR data to generate
high-fidelity images of relevant structures and functions.

**Core Mission and Expertise** The Center's primary expertise is the development
and implementation of functional imaging techniques as potential biomarkers for
the analysis of various pathologies. A special focus is functional MRI (fMRI),
which assesses physiological activity to analyze neural function. At JIMRIC,
fMRI is used to analyze neural activity in the brain's white matter to map
functional connectivity. This is critical for determining injury locations and
planning neurosurgical interventions, offering a potent diagnostic capacity when
combined with structural analysis. Support is provided to numerous departments
across the University and Hospital, including Radiology, Psychiatry, Psychology,
Neuroscience, Neuro-Oncology, Neurology, Occupational and Physical Therapy
(OT/PT), and Neurosurgery.

**Research Collaboration** The Center serves as a resource for researchers
developing new grants in brain and spine disorders. We collaborate with
departments to integrate robust MR imaging methodologies into research studies
for testing hypotheses, particularly for the non-invasive investigation of the
central nervous system in humans.

**Ongoing Research Projects**

**Advanced Clinical Neuroimaging for Pre-surgical Planning** This project
focuses on the use of blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) and diffusion-based
imaging for integration into the operating room as a functional roadmap for
surgical planning. We are developing image post-processing pipelines to
facilitate the automated generation of motor and language maps in patients with
brain tumors, Parkinson’s disease (for deep brain stimulation), and epilepsy.

**Functional Imaging of the Spinal Cord** This research characterizes pediatric
spinal cord injury (SCI) using reduced field of view Diffusion Tensor Imaging
(DTI) to quantify water diffusion in neurons, serving as a potential diagnostic
biomarker. We are also investigating Diffusion Kurtosis Imaging (DKI), Neurite
Orientation Dispersion Imaging (NODDI), Magnetization Transfer (MT), and cord
atrophy via automated sectional area measurements. These techniques are used to
study the normal and injured pediatric spinal cord and to develop imaging
biomarkers for SCI patients. The laboratory is also developing a pediatric
spinal cord template to serve as a clinical benchmark for diagnosing SCI and
investigating the relationship between CNS integrity and clinical presentation
in adult SCI patients.

**PET-MR for Integrative Health** Using a PET-MR scanner at the Marcus Institute
of Integrative Health, one of only a few such machines in the country,
researchers are studying the mechanisms of integrative approaches for managing
stress in cancer patients. This device has the capacity to track function versus
receptor occupancy for various cognitive tasks, and our studies employ advanced
functional neuroimaging methods such as fMRI, resting-state fMRI, and DTI.

**Predicting Patient Response to Dopamine and DBS** In Parkinson’s disease (PD),
neuronal loss and dopamine depletion alter motor signal processing. This project
aims to better understand the changes in functional connectivity (FC) and
anatomical connectivity (AC) within cortico-basal-ganglia-thalamic circuits that
occur with disease progression. Our findings have helped translate network
understanding from animal models to human patients, with the goal of identifying
an advanced MR imaging biomarker that can help predict treatment response in
patients with PD.

**Effects of Anesthesia on Resting State fMRI** Resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI) has
great potential but suffers from poor reliability and high between-subject
variation due to uncontrolled thought processes during the "resting task,"
limiting its clinical and research utility. This project investigates the use of
general anesthesia to generate a consistent mental state, virtually eliminate
head motion, and control patient physiology. By understanding the effects of
volatile gaseous anesthetics (vGA) on rs-fMRI and demonstrating improved
reproducibility, we aim to expand its indications for clinical neuroscience. A
reliable means of measuring functional brain states will enable researchers to
better understand pathophysiology, improve diagnosis, and quantify treatment
effects in neurological diseases such as epilepsy, Alzheimer’s, and Parkinson's
Disease.
